Adding build with AI page (#60)
auth0/docs-v2: auth4genai/build-with-ai/using-ai-tools.mdx

---

> title: Using AI Tools

Reviewer: fyi it's more authoritative, concise, and TW best practice to not use the present participle in headings, so i would suggest changing to: "Use AI Tools"

description: Use AI tools to integrate Auth for GenAI into your application.
---

## Auth for GenAI MCP server
Connect your AI tools such as GitHub Copilot, Cursor, or Windsurf to the Auth for GenAI Model Context Protocol (MCP) Docs Server to give them access to the documentation.
This will give your tools accurate answers about how to setup and integrate Auth for GenAI.

> ### MCP server connection info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect to the Auth for GenAI MCP server
```

> Connect your AI tools to the MCP server using this information or follow one of our guides below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Auth for GenAI MCP server has the following endpoint metadata:
```

- **Server Name:** Auth for GenAI
- **Server URL:** `https://auth0.com/ai/docs/mcp`
- **Transport Type:** HTTP

> 

Reviewer: You can also connect your AI tool to the Auth for GenAI MCP server by following one of our guides.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="VS Code">

> <Tip>Automatically connect by opening the contextual menu at the top of this page and selecting **Connect to VS Code**.</Tip>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tip>To automatically connect VS Code to the Auth for GenAI MCP server, click the down arrow icon next to **Copy page** and select **Connect to VS Code**.</Tip>
```

Or create a `.vscode/mcp.json` file and add:

```json
{
  "servers": {
    "Auth for GenAI": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "https://auth0.com/ai/docs/mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

> See the [VS Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, read he [VS Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers).
```

Reviewer: fyi this isn't technically wrong but our Auth0 style guide uses the "To learn more, read xyz" convention for accessibility purposes :) we don't use "see" for the visually impaired

</Tab>

<Tab title="Cursor">

> <Tip>Automatically connect by opening the contextual menu at the top of this page and selecting **Connect to Cursor**.</Tip>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tip>To automatically connect Cursor to the Auth for GenAI MCP server, click the down arrow icon next to **Copy page** and select **Connect to Cursor**.</Tip>
```

Or follow these steps to connect the MCP server:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Open MCP settings">
    1. Use <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> on Windows) to open the command palette.
    2. Search for "Open MCP settings".
    3. Select **Add custom MCP**. This will open the `mcp.json` file.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Configure the Auth for GenAI MCP server">
    In `mcp.json`, add:

    ```json
    {
      "mcpServers": {
        "Auth for GenAI": {
          "url": "https://auth0.com/ai/docs/mcp"
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Test the connection">
    In Cursor's chat, ask "What tools do you have available?" Cursor should show the Auth for GenAI MCP server as an available tool.
  </Step>
</Steps>

> See [Installing MCP servers](https://docs.cursor.com/en/context/mcp#installing-mcp-servers) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, read [Installing MCP servers](https://docs.cursor.com/en/context/mcp#installing-mcp-servers).
```

</Tab>

<Tab title="Claude Code">
Connect to Claude Code using the following command:

```bash
claude mcp add --transport http "Auth for GenAI" https://auth0.com/ai/docs/mcp
```

Test the connection by running:

```bash
claude mcp list
```

> See [Installing MCP servers](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp#installing-mcp-servers) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, read [Installing MCP servers](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp#installing-mcp-servers).
```

</Tab>

<Tab title="Claude">
To use the Auth for GenAI MCP server with Claude:
<Steps>
  <Step title="Add the Auth for GenAI MCP server to Claude">
    1. Navigate to the [Connectors](https://claude.ai/settings/connectors) page in the Claude settings. 
    2. Select **Add custom connector**.
    3. Add the Auth for GenAI MCP server:
      - Name: `Auth for GenAI`
      - URL: `https://auth0.com/ai/docs/mcp`
    4. Select **Add**.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Access the MCP server in your chat">

>     1. When using Claude, select the attachments button (the plus icon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. When using Claude, select the attachments button (the plus icon).
```
```suggestion
    1. Use the attachments button (**+**) to add files to your Claude prompt.
```

    2. Select the Auth for GenAI MCP server.
    3. Ask Claude a question about Auth for GenAI.
  </Step>
</Steps>

> See the [Model Context Protocol documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/tutorials/use-remote-mcp-server#connecting-to-a-remote-mcp-server) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, read the [Model Context Protocol documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/tutorials/use-remote-mcp-server#connecting-to-a-remote-mcp-server).
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

> ## How to use the Auth for GenAI Docs MCP server

Reviewer: i moved/consolidated this section to the top so people immediately know the value of connecting their AI tool with the Auth for GenAI MCP server, but let's discuss if you want to keep it here
